.\" @(#)Intro.3r 1.1 94/10/31 SMI;
.TH INTRO 3R "4 September 1987"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to RPC service library functions and protocols
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "RPC protocol specifications"
.IX "protocol specifications"
.IX "RPC library functions, introduction to"
.IX introduction "RPC library functions"
.IX "library functions"  "introduction to RPC"
.LP
These functions constitute the
.SM RPC
service library. Most of these describe
.SM RPC
protocols. The
.SM PROTOCOL
section describes how to access the protocol
description file.  This file may be compiled with 
.BR rpcgen (1) 
to produce data definitions and
.SM XDR
routines. Procompiled versions of header files sometimes 
exist as
.B <rpcsvc/*.h>
and precompiled
.SM XDR
routines and programming interfaces to
the protocols sometimes exist in
.IR librpcsvc .
Warning: some of these header files and
.SM XDR
routines were hand-written because
they existed before
.I rpcgen.
They do not correspond to their protocol description file.
In order to get the link editor to load this library,
use the
.B \-lrpcsvc
option of
.BR cc (1V).
Information about the availability of programming interfaces to these
protocols is available under
.SM PROGRAMMING
section of each manual page. 
.LP
Some routines in the 
.B librpcsvc
library do not correspond to protocols, but are useful utilities for
.SM RPC
programming. These are distinguished by the presence of the
.SM SYNOPSIS
section instead of the usual
.SM PROTOCOL
section.
.ne 10
.SH "LIST OF STANDARD RPC SERVICES"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +20n
.if n .ta 20n; +20n
.nf
\fBName	Appears on Page	Description\fR
.sp
.nr zZ 1
.so man3/List.3r
.nr zZ 0
.fi
