.\" @(#)Intro.3l 1.1 94/10/31 SMI;
.\" Copyright (C) 1987, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.TH INTRO 3L "21 January 1990"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to the lightweight process library (LWP)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "lightweight processes library" "" "" "" PAGE MAJOR
.LP
The lightweight process library
(\s-1LWP\s0)
provides a mechanism to support
multiple threads of control that share a single address space.
Under SunOS, the address space is derived from a single
.I forked
(\*(lqheavyweight\*(rq) process.
Each thread has its own stack segment (specified when the thread is created)
so that it can access local variables
and make procedure calls independently of other threads.
The collection of threads sharing an address space is called a
.IR pod .
Under SunOS,
threads share all of the resources of the
heavyweight process that contains the pod, including descriptors and signal
handlers.
.LP
The 
.SM LWP
provides a means for creating and destroying
threads, message exchange between threads, manipulating
condition variables and
monitors, handling synchronous exceptions, mapping asynchronous
events into messages, mapping synchronous events into
exceptions, arranging for special per-thread context,
multiplexing the clock for timeouts,
and scheduling threads both preemptively and non\-preemptively.
.LP
The
.SM LWP
system exists as a library of routines
.RB ( /usr/lib/liblwp.a )
linked in
.RB ( \-llwp )
with a client program which should
.B #include
the file
.BR <lwp/lwp.h> .
.B main
is transparently converted into a lightweight process as soon as
it attempts to use any
.SM LWP
primitives.
.LP
When an object created by a
.SM LWP
primitive is destroyed,
every attempt is made to clean up after it.
For example, if a thread dies, all threads blocked on sends to
or receives from that thread are unblocked, and all monitor locks
held by the dead thread are released.
.LP
Because there is no kernel support for threads at present,
system calls effectively block the entire pod.
By linking in the non-blocking I/O library
.RB ( \-lnbio )
ahead of the
.SM LWP
library,
you can alleviate this problem for those system calls that can issue
a signal when a system call would be profitable to try.
This library (which redefines some system calls)
uses asynchronous I/O and events (for example,
.SB SIGCHLD
and
.SM
.BR SIGIO \s0)
to make blocking less painful.
The system calls remapped by the nbio library are:
.BR open (2V),
.BR socket (2),
.BR pipe (2V),
.BR close (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR write (2V) ,
.BR send (2),
.BR recv (2),
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.B select (2)
and
.BR wait (2V).
.SH RETURN VALUES
.LP
.SM LWP
primitives
return
non-negative integers
on success.
On errors,
they return
\-1.
See
.BR lwp_perror (3L)
for details on error handling.
.LP
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/liblwp.a
.TP
.B /usr/lib/libnbio.a
.\".TP
.\".B <lwp/check.h>
.\".TP
.\".B <lwp/lwp.h>
.\".TP
.\".B <lwp/lwperror.h>
.\".TP
.\".B <lwp/lwpmachdep.h>
.\".TP
.\".B <lwp/stackdep.h>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR accept (2),
.BR close (2V),
.BR connect (2),
.BR open (2V),
.BR pipe (2V),
.BR read (2V),
.BR recv (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR wait (2V)
.BR write (2V) ,
.LP
.I Lightweight Processes
in the
.TX SSO
.SH INDEX
The following are the primitives currently supported, grouped roughly
by function.
.SS "Thread Creation"
.nf
.ft B
lwp_self(tid)
lwp_getstate(tid, statvec)
lwp_setregs(tid, machstate)
lwp_getregs(tid, machstate)
lwp_ping(tid)
lwp_create(tid, pc, prio, flags, stack, nargs, arg1, .\|.\|.\|, argn)
lwp_destroy(tid)
lwp_enumerate(vec, maxsize)
pod_setexit(status)
pod_getexit(\|)
pod_exit(status)
\s-1SAMETHREAD\s0(t1, t2)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Thread Scheduling"
.nf
.ft B
pod_setmaxpri(maxprio)
pod_getmaxpri(\|)
pod_getmaxsize(\|)
lwp_resched(prio)
lwp_setpri(tid, prio)
lwp_sleep(timeout)
lwp_suspend(tid)
lwp_resume(tid)
lwp_yield(tid)
lwp_join(tid)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Error Handling"
.nf
.ft B
lwp_geterr(\|)
lwp_perror(s)
lwp_errstr(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.SS Messages
.nf
.ft B
msg_send(tid, argbuf, argsize, resbuf, ressize)
msg_recv(tid, argbuf, argsize, resbuf, ressize, timeout)
\s-1MSG_RECVALL\s0(tid, argbuf, argsize, resbuf, ressize, timeout)
msg_reply(tid)
msg_enumsend(vec, maxsize)
msg_enumrecv(vec, maxsize)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Event Mapping (Agents)"
.nf
.ft B
agt_create(agt, event, memory)
agt_enumerate(vec, maxsize)
agt_trap(event)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Thread Synchronization: Monitors"
.nf
.ft B
mon_create(mid)
mon_destroy(mid)
mon_enter(mid)
mon_exit(mid)
mon_enumerate(vec, maxsize)
mon_waiters (mid, owner, vec, maxsize)
mon_cond_enter(mid)
mon_break(mid)
\s-1MONITOR\s0(mid)
\s-1SAMEMON\s0(m1, m2)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Thread Synchronization: Condition Variables"
.nf
.ft B
cv_create(cv, mid)
cv_destroy(cv)
cv_wait(cv)
cv_notify(cv)
cv_send(cv, tid)
cv_broadcast(cv)
cv_enumerate(vec, maxsize)
cv_waiters(cv, vec, maxsize)
\s-1SAMECV\s0(c1, c2)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Exception Handling"
.nf
.ft B
exc_handle(pattern, func, arg)
exc_unhandle(\|)
(*exc_bound(pattern, arg))(\|)
exc_notify(pattern)
exc_raise(pattern)
exc_on_exit(func, arg)
exc_uniqpatt(\|)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Special Context Handling"
.nf
.ft B
lwp_ctxinit(tid, cookie)
lwp_ctxremove(tid, cookie)
lwp_ctxset(save, restore, ctxsize, optimise)
lwp_ctxmemget(mem, tid, ctx)
lwp_ctxmemset(mem, tid, ctx)
lwp_fpset(tid)
lwp_libcset(tid)
.ft R
.fi
.SS "Stack Management"
.nf
.ft B
\s-1CHECK\s0(location, result)
lwp_setstkcache(minsize, numstks)
lwp_newstk(\|)
lwp_datastk(data, size, addr)
lwp_stkcswset(tid, limit)
lwp_checkstkset(tid, limit)
\s-1STKTOP\s0(s)
.ft R
.fi
.SH BUGS
.LP
There is no language support available from C.
.LP
There is no kernel support yet.
Thus system calls in different threads cannot execute in parallel.
.LP
Killing a process that uses the non-blocking I/O library may leave
objects (such as its standard input) in a non-blocking state.
This could cause confusion to the shell.
.br
.ne 10 
.SH "LIST OF LWP LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +20n
.if n .ta 20n; +20n
.nf
\fBName	Appears on Page	Description\fR
.sp
.nr zZ 1
.so man3/List.3l
.nr zZ 0
.fi
