.\" @(#)Intro.3 1.1 94/10/31 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH INTRO 3 "21 October 1987"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to user-level library functions
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  introduction  "C library functions"  ""  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "C library functions, introduction to"  "" ""  ""  PAGE START
.IX  "library functions" "introduction to C"  ""  ""  PAGE START
.LP
Section 3 describes user-level library routines.  In this release, most
user-library routines are listed in alphabetical order regardless of
their subsection headings.  (This eliminates having to search through
several subsections of the manual.)  However, due to their
special-purpose nature, the routines from the following libraries are
broken out into the indicated subsections:
.TP 3
\(bu
The Lightweight Processes Library, in subsection 3L.
.TP
\(bu
The Mathematical Library, in subsection 3M.
.TP
\(bu
The
.SM RPC
Services Library, in subsection 3R.
.LP
A 3V section number means one or more of the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
The man page documents System V behavior only.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents default SunOS behavior, and System V behavior as it
differs from the default behavior.
These System V differences are presented under
.SB SYSTEM V
section headers.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents behavior compliant with
.I \s-1IEEE\s0 Std 1003.1-1988
(\s-1POSIX.1\s0).
.LP
The System V Library was formerly documented in a separate manual section.
These man pages have been merged into
the main portion of section 3.  These man pages describe functions that
may differ from the default SunOS functions.  To use them,
compile programs with
.B /usr/5bin/cc
instead of
.BR /usr/bin/cc .
.LP
Section 3 also documents the library interfaces for
.I "X/Open Portability Guide, Issue 2"
(\s-1XPG2\s0)
compatibility.
Where these interfaces differ from the System V versions, the differences
are noted.
To use the
.SM XPG2
compatibility library interfaces, compile
programs with
.BR /usr/xpg2bin/cc .
.LP
The libraries provide many different \*(lqstandard\*(rq environments.
These environments (including two that are not yet fully supported) 
are described on
.BR ansic (7V),
.BR bsd (7),
.BR posix (7V),
.BR sunos (7),
.BR svidii (7V),
.BR svidiii (7V),
and
.BR xopen (7V).
.LP
The main C library,
.BR /usr/lib/libc.a ,
contains many of the functions described in this section,
along with entry points for the system calls described in Section 2.
This library also includes the Internet networking routines
listed under the 3N subsection heading, and routines provided for
compatibility with other
.SM UNIX
operating systems, listed under 3C.  Functions associated with the
\*(lqstandard I/O library\*(rq are listed under 3S.
.LP
User-level routines for access to data structures within the kernel
and other processes are listed under 3K.  To use these functions,
compile programs with the
.B \-lkvm
option for the C compiler,
.BR cc (1V).
.LP
Math library functions are listed under 3M.
To use them, compile programs with the
.B \-lm
.BR cc (1V)
option.
.LP
Various specialized libraries, the routines they contain, and the
compiler options needed to link with them, are listed under 3X.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 20
.B /usr/lib/libc.a
C Library (2, 3, 3N and 3C)
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib*.a
other \*(lqstandard\*(rq C libraries
.TP
.B /usr/lib/lib*.a
special-purpose C libraries
.TP
.B /usr/5bin/cc
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR cc (1V),
.BR ld (1),
.BR nm (1),
.BR intro (2)
.IX  introduction  "C library functions"  ""  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "C library functions, introduction to"  "" ""  ""  PAGE END
.IX  "library functions" "introduction to C"  ""  ""  PAGE END
.br
.ne 10
.SH "LIST OF LIBRARY FUNCTIONS"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +20n
.if n .ta 20n; +20n
.nf
.B Name	Appears on Page	Description
.sp
.nr zZ 1
.so man3/List.3
.nr zZ 0
.fi

