.\" @(#)Intro.8 1.1 94/10/31 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.TH INTRO 8 "22 May 1991"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to system maintenance and operation commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX introduction "system maintenance and operation"
.IX  "system maintenance and operation"
.IX  "maintenance and operation"
.LP
This section contains information related to system bootstrapping,
operation and maintenance.
It describes all the server processes
and daemons that run on the system, as well as standalone 
(\s-1PROM\s0 monitor) programs.
.LP
An 8V section number means one or more of the following:
.TP 3
\(bu
The man page documents System V behavior only.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents default SunOS behavior, and System V behavior as it
differs from the default behavior.
These System V differences are presented under
.SB SYSTEM V
section headers.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents behavior compliant with
.I \s-1IEEE\s0 Std 1003.1-1988
(\s-1POSIX.1\s0).
.LP
Disk formatting and labeling is done by
.BR format (8S).
Bootstrapping of the system is described in
.BR boot (8S),
.BR openboot (8S)
and
.BR init (8).
The standard set of commands run by the system when it boots
is described in
.BR rc (8).
Related commands include those that check the consistency of file 
systems,
.BR fsck (8);
those that mount and unmount file systems,
.BR mount (8);
add swap devices,
.BR swapon (8);
force completion of outstanding file system I/O,
.BR sync (2);
shutdown or reboot a running system
.BR shutdown (8),
.BR halt (8),
and
.BR reboot (8);
and, set the time on a machine from the time on another machine
.BR rdate (8C).
.LP
Creation of file systems is discussed in
.BR mkfs (8)
and
.BR newfs (8).
File system performance parameters can be adjusted with
.BR tunefs (8).
File system backups and restores are described in
.BR dump (8)
and
.BR restore (8).
.LP
Procedures for adding new users to a system are described in
.BR adduser (8),
using
.BR vipw (8)
to lock the password file during editing.
.\".LP
.\"Other programs that are useful when the system crashes or hardware is 
.\"broken include
.\".BR gxtest (8S)
.\"which tests the frame buffer on a workstation,
.\".BR imemtest (8S)
.\"which tests the memory,
.BR panic (8S)
which describes what happens when the system crashes,
.BR savecore (8)
which can be used to analyze system crash dumps.
Occasionally useful as adjuncts to the
.BR fsck (8)
file system repair program are
.BR clri (8),
.BR dcheck (8),
.BR icheck (8),
and
.BR ncheck (8).
.LP
Configuring a new version of the 
kernel requires using the program
.BR config (8);
major system bootstraps often require the use of
.BR mkproto (8).
New devices are added to the
.B /dev
directory (once device drivers are configured into the system)
using 
.BR makedev (8)
and
.BR mknod (8).
The
.BR installboot (8S)
command can be used to install freshly compiled programs.
The
.BR catman (8)
command preformats the on-line manual pages.
.LP
Resource accounting is enabled by the
.B accton
command, and summarized by
.BR sa (8).
Login time accounting is performed by
.BR ac (8).
Disk quotas are managed using
.BR quot (8),
.BR quotacheck (8),
.BR quotaon (8),
and
.BR repquota (8).
.LP
A number of servers and daemon processes are described in this
section.  The
.BR update (8)
daemon forces delayed file system I/O to occur and 
.BR cron (8)
runs periodic events
(such as removing temporary files from the disk periodically).
The
.BR syslogd (8)
daemon maintains the system error log.
The
.BR init (8)
process is the initial process created when 
the system boots.  It manages
the reboot process and creates the initial login prompts on the
various system terminals, using
.BR getty (8).
The Internet super-server
.BR inetd (8C)
invokes all other internet servers as needed.  These servers include the
remote shell servers
.BR rshd (8C)
and
.BR rexecd (8C),
the remote login server
.BR rlogind (8C),
the
.SM FTP
and
.SM TELNET
daemons
.BR ftpd (8C),
and
.BR telnetd (8C),
the
.SM TFTP
daemon
.BR tftpd (8C),
and the mail arrival notification daemon
.BR comsat (8C).
Other network daemons include the `load average/who is logged in' daemon
.BR rwhod (8C),
the routing daemon
.BR routed (8C),
and the mail daemon
.BR sendmail (8).
.LP
If network protocols are being debugged, then the
protocol debugging trace program
.BR trpt (8C)
is often useful.  Remote magnetic tape access is provided by
.B rsh
and
.BR rmt (8C).
Remote line printer access is provided by
.BR lpd (8),
and control over the various print queues is provided by
.BR lpc (8).
Printer cost-accounting is done through
.BR pac (8).
.LP
Network host tables may be gotten from the
.SM ARPA NIC
using
.BR gettable (8C)
and converted to 
.SM UNIX\s0-system-usable 
format using
.BR htable (8).
.br
.ne 5
.SS RPC and NFS daemons
.LP
.SM RPC
and
.SM NFS
daemons include:
.RS
.TP 10
.B portmap
.PD 0
used by
.SM RPC
based services.
.TP
.B ypbind
used by the 
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
to locate the 
.SM NIS
server.
Note: the
Network Information Service
(\s-1NIS\s0)
was formerly known as Sun Yellow Pages
(\s-1YP\s0). 
The functionality of the two remains the same;
only the name has changed.
.TP
.B biod
used by
.SM NFS
clients to read ahead to, and write behind from, network file
systems.
.TP
.B nfsd
the
.SM NFS
server process that responds to
.SM NFS
requests on
.SM NFS
server machines.
.TP
.B ypserv
the 
.SM NIS
server, typically run on each
.SM NFS
server.
.TP
.B rstatd
the server counterpart of the remote speedometer tools.
.TP
.B mountd
the
.B mount
server that runs on
.SM NFS
server machines and responds to requests by other machines
to mount file systems.
.TP
.B rwalld
used for broadcasting messages over the network.
.PD
.RE
.br
.ne 10
.SH "LIST OF MAINTENANCE COMMANDS"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +20n
.if n .ta 20n; +20n
.nf 
\fBName	Appears on Page	Description\fR 
.sp 
.nr zZ 1 
.so man8/List.8
.nr zZ 0
.fi
