.\" @(#)Intro.4 1.1 94/10/31 SMI;
.TH INTRO 4 "29 April 1992"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to device drivers, protocols, and network interfaces
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  "devices, introduction to"
.IX  "hardware support, introduction to"
.IX  "network interface, introduction to"
.IX  "protocols, introduction to"
.IX  "introduction"  "devices"
.IX  "introduction"  "hardware support"
.IX  "introduction"  "network interface"
.IX  "introduction"  "protocols"
.LP
This section describes device drivers, high-speed
network interfaces, and protocols available
under Sun\s-1OS\s0.  The system
provides drivers for a variety of hardware
devices, such as disks, magnetic tapes, serial
communication lines, mice, and frame buffers,
as well as virtual devices such as pseudo-terminals
and windows.  Sun\s-1OS\s0 provides hardware
support and a network interface for the 10-Megabit
Ethernet, along with interfaces for the
.SM IP
protocol family and a
.SM STREAMS\s0-based
Network Interface Tap (\s-1NIT\s0) facility.
.LP
In addition to describing device drivers that
are supported by the 4.3\s-1BSD\s0
operating system, this section contains subsections that describe:
.TP 3
\(bu
Sun\s-1OS\s0-specific device drivers, under `4S'.
.TP
\(bu
Protocol families, under `4F'.
.TP
\(bu
Protocols and raw interfaces, under `4P'.
.TP
\(bu
.SM STREAMS
modules, under `4M'.
.TP
\(bu
Network interfaces, under `4N'.
.SS Configuration
.LP
The Sun\s-1OS\s0 kernel can be configured
to include or omit many of the
device drivers described in this section.  The
.SM CONFIG
section of the manual page gives the line(s) to include in
the kernel configuration file for each machine architecture
on which a device is supported.  If no specific architectures
are indicated, the configuration syntax applies to all Sun systems.
.LP
The
.SM GENERIC
kernel is the default configuration for Sun\s-1OS\s0.
It contains all of the
optional drivers for a given machine architecture.
See
.BR config (8),
for details on configuring a new Sun\s-1OS\s0 kernel.
.LP
The manual page for a device driver may also include a
.SM DIAGNOSTICS
section, listing
error messages that the driver might produce.  Normally, these
messages are logged to the appropriate system log using the
kernel's standard message-buffering mechanism
(see
.BR syslogd (8));
they may also appear on the system console.
.SS Ioctls
.LP
Various special functions, such as querying or altering
the operating characteristics of a device, are performed by supplying
appropriate parameters to the
.BR ioctl (2)
system call.  These parameters are often referred to as ``ioctls.''
Ioctls for a specific device are presented in the manual page for
that device.  Ioctls that pertain to a class of devices are listed in
a manual page with a name that suggests the class of device, and
ending in `io', such as
.BR mtio (4)
for magnetic tape devices, or
.BR dkio (4S)
for disk controllers.  In addition, some ioctls
operate directly on higher-level objects such as files,
terminals, sockets, and streams:
.TP 3
\(bu
Ioctls that operate directly on files, file descriptors, and sockets
are described in
.BR filio (4).
Note: the
.BR fcntl (2V)
system call is the primary method for operating on
file descriptors as such, rather than on the underlying files.
Also note that the
.B setsockopt
system call (see
.BR getsockopt (2))
is the primary method for operating on sockets as such, rather
than on the underlying protocol or network interface.
Ioctls for a specific network interface are documented in the manual
page for that interface.
.TP
\(bu
Ioctls for terminals, including pseudo-terminals, are described in
.BR termio (4).
This manual page includes information about both the
.SM BSD
.B termios
structure, as well as the System V
.B termio
structure.
.TP
\(bu
Ioctls for
.SM STREAMS
are described in
.BR streamio (4).
.br
.ne 5
.SS "Devices Always Present"
.LP
Device drivers present in every kernel include:
.TP 3
\(bu
The paging device; see
.BR drum (4).
.TP
\(bu
Drivers for accessing physical, virtual, and I/O space in memory; see
.BR mem (4S).
.TP
\(bu
The data sink; see
.BR null (4).
.SS "Terminals and Serial Communications Devices"
.LP
Serial communication lines are normally supported by the
terminal driver; see
.BR tty (4).
This driver manages serial lines provided by
communications drivers, such as those described in
.BR mti (4S)
and
.BR zs (4S).
The terminal driver also handles serial lines provided by
virtual terminals, such as the Sun console monitor described in
.BR console (4S),
and true pseudo-terminals, described in
.BR pty (4).
.SS "Disk Devices"
.LP
Drivers for the following disk controllers provide standard block and
raw interfaces under Sun\s-1OS\s0:
.TP 3
\(bu
.SM SCSI
controllers, in
.BR sd (4S),
.TP
\(bu
Xylogics 450 and 451
.SM SMD
controllers, in
.BR xy (4S),
.TP
\(bu
Xylogics 7053
.SM SMD
controllers, in
.BR xd (4S),
.TP
\(bu
.SM IPI
controllers, in
.BR id (4S).
.LP
Ioctls to query or set a disk's geometry and partitioning are described
in
.BR dkio (4S).
.SS "Magnetic Tape Devices"
.LP
Magnetic tape devices supported by Sun\s-1OS\s0 include those described in
.BR ar (4S),
.BR tm (4S),
.BR st (4S),
and
.BR xt (4S).
Ioctls for all tape-device drivers are described in
.BR mtio (4S).
.SS "Frame Buffers"
.LP
Frame buffer devices include color frame buffers described in the
.BR cg* (4S)
and
.BR gt (4S)
manual pages, monochrome frame buffers described in the
.BR bw* (4S)
manual pages, graphics processor interfaces described in the
.BR gp* (4S)
manual pages, and an indirect device
for the console frame buffer described in
.BR fb (4S).
Ioctls for all frame-buffer devices are described in
.BR fbio (4S).
.SS "Miscellaneous Devices"
.LP
Miscellaneous devices include the console keyboard described in
.BR kbd (4S),
the console mouse described in
.BR mouse (4S),
window devices described in
.BR win (4S),
and the DES encryption-chip interface described in
.BR des (4S).
.SS "Network-Interface Devices"
.LP
Sun\s-1OS\s0 supports the 10-Megabit Ethernet as its primary network
interface; see
.BR ie (4S)
and
.BR le (4S)
for details.
However, a software loopback interface,
.BR lo (4)
is also supported.
General properties of these network interfaces are described in
.BR if (4N),
along with the ioctls that operate on them.
.LP
Support for network routing is described in
.BR routing (4N).
.SS "Protocols and Protocol Families"
.LP
Sun\s-1OS\s0 supports both socket-based and
.SM STREAMS\s0-based
network communications.
The Internet protocol family, described in
.BR inet (4F),
is the primary protocol family primary supported by Sun\s-1OS\s0, although
the system can support a number of others.  The raw
interface provides low-level services, such as
packet fragmentation and reassembly, routing, addressing, and basic
transport for socket-based implementations.  Facilities for
communicating using an Internet-family protocol are generally
accessed by specifying the
.SB AF_INET
address family when binding a socket; see
.BR socket (2)
for details.
.LP
Major protocols in the Internet family include:
.TP 3
\(bu
The Internet Protocol (\s-1IP\s0) itself,
which supports the universal datagram format, as described in
.BR ip (4P).
This is the default protocol for
.SM SOCK_RAW\s0
type sockets within the
.SB AF_INET
domain.
.TP
\(bu
The Transmission Control Protocol (\s-1TCP\s0); see
.BR tcp (4P).
This is the default protocol for
.SM SOCK_STREAM\s0
type sockets.
.TP
\(bu
The User Datagram Protocol (\s-1UDP\s0); see
.BR udp (4P).
This is the default protocol for
.SM SOCK_DGRAM
type sockets.
.br
.ne 3
.TP
\(bu
The Address Resolution Protocol (\s-1ARP\s0); see
.BR arp (4P).
.TP
\(bu
The Internet Control Message Protocol (\s-1ICMP\s0); see
.BR icmp (4P).
.LP
The Network Interface Tap (\s-1NIT\s0) protocol, described in
.BR nit (4P),
is a
.SM STREAMS\s0-based
facility for accessing the network at the link level.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR fcntl (2V),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR ioctl (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR ar (4S),
.BR arp (4P),
.BR dkio (4S),
.BR drum (4),
.BR fb (4S),
.BR fbio (4S),
.BR filio (4),
.BR icmp (4P),
.BR if (4N),
.BR inet (4F),
.BR ip (4P),
.BR kbd (4S),
.BR le (4S),
.BR lo (4),
.BR mem (4S),
.BR mti (4S),
.BR mtio (4),
.BR nit (4P),
.BR null (4),
.BR pty (4),
.BR routing (4N),
.BR sd (4S),
.BR st (4S)
.BR streamio (4),
.BR tcp (4P),
.BR termio (4),
.BR tm (4S),
.BR tty (4),
.BR udp (4P),
.BR win (4S),
.BR xd (4S),
.BR xy (4S),
.BR zs (4S)
.br
.ne 25
.SH "LIST OF DEVICES, INTERFACES AND PROTOCOLS"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +20n
.if n .ta 20n; +20n
.nf
.B Name 	Appears on Page 	Description
.sp
.nr zZ 1
.so man4/List.4
.nr zZ 0
.fi
