.\" @(#)Intro.1 1.1 94/10/31 SMI;
.TH INTRO 1 "4 March 1988"
.SH NAME
intro \- introduction to commands
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX  introduction "commands"
.IX  "commands, introduction"
.IX  "programs, introduction"
.IX  "utilities, introduction"
.LP
This section describes publicly accessible commands in alphabetic order.
Commands of general utility, many with enhancements from 4.3
.SM BSD\s0.
.LP
Pages of special interest have been categorized as follows:
.TP 10
1C
Commands for communicating with other systems.
.TP
1G
Commands used primarily for graphics and computer-aided design.
.TP
1V
System V commands.  One or more of the following are true:
.RS
.TP 3
\(bu
The man page documents System V behavior only.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents default SunOS behavior, and System V behavior as it
differs from the default behavior.
These System V differences are presented under
.SB SYSTEM V
section headers.
.TP
\(bu
The man page documents behavior compliant with
.I \s-1IEEE\s0 Std 1003.1-1988
(\s-1POSIX.1\s0).
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP 3
\(bu 
Section 8 in this manual for system administration procedures, system
maintenance and operation commands, local daemons, and
network-services servers.
.TP
\(bu 
Section 7 in this manual for descriptions of publicly available files
and macro packages for document preparation.
.TP
\(bu 
Section 6 in this manual for computer games.
.TP
\(bu 
.TX GSBG
.TP
\(bu
.TX SUBG
.TP
\(bu
.TX SVBG
.TP 3
\(bu 
.TX DMBG
.TP
\(bu
.TX PUL
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.LP
Upon termination each command returns two bytes of status,
one supplied by the system giving the cause for
termination, and (in the case of \*(lqnormal\*(rq termination)
one supplied by the program, see
.BR wait (2V)
and
.BR exit (2V).
The former byte is 0 for normal termination, the latter
is customarily 0 for successful execution, nonzero
to indicate troubles such as erroneous parameters, bad or inaccessible 
data, or other inability to cope with the task at hand.
It is called variously \*(lqexit code,\*(rq \*(lqexit status\*(rq or
\*(lqreturn code,\*(rq and is described only where special conventions are 
involved.
.br
.ne 50
.SH "LIST OF COMMANDS"
.sp
.if t .ta 25n; +22n
.if n .ta 20n; +22n
.nf
\fBName	Appears on Page	Description\fR
.sp
.nr zZ 1
.so man1/List.1
.nr zZ 0
.fi
